[Music]
I want to say how glad we are to have
Stan ton here he uh we haven't seen him
half enough this year and we're very
much interested in what he has to say
the alphabet of course is interesting
and all he always is interesting so I'm
very happy to introduce
Stant uh I guess you know he is a
research manager of the U miru
foundation
and wonderful thinker thank you thank
you
Ruth thank you all for coming um as Ruth
mentioned uh I'm the director of
research for the meru foundation and um
this is I guess one of a continuing
series of discussions of the work that
we've been doing on the Hebrew alphabet
and the text of Genesis in the Hebrew
Bible um I'm going to review quickly the
early work at after we get into things
so for people who haven't seen any of
this before I'll try to go through
through it pretty quickly and then um I
have a whole list of things that I'm
going to try to accomplish there's no
chance that we'll do them all um but I
want to reserve two chunks of time one
to very carefully go through the meaning
of the Hebrew letters and as you'll see
the hand gestures that we're saying
appear to generate the Hebrew letters
and then I also because this is such a
good audience usually I'd really like to
leave time to do some questions and to
get into some of the philosophical
issues and some of the implications of
the work
um I think what I'd like to do rather
than continue for those who haven't
heard this before um is to review the
basic ideas where from which all this
came and I'm going to do that by just
starting at the beginning and going very
quickly because most people here I think
have seen
it if you look at the first verse of the
Hebrew text Genesis if I can get the
light to not make Shadow for me here's
the first verse of Genesis in
Hebrew and what you find is if you count
the letters in base 3 count and there's
a paper in the pack that you've got that
describes this in more detail you find
that that there are sets of letters that
are Mirror Image locations this is in in
base three this is the 2011th letter
this is the 102th letter you can
consider those cartisian
coordinates and you could put the
letters on a rubic cube if I don't twist
the cube it'll actually lined up
properly and the letters that have these
Mirror Image counts to them are in
mirror positions on the cube and so the
L and the r the 2011 and the 2011 and
the 102 are mirror positions against the
main diagonal of the cube and so there's
something about L's and L's and rs to
use the English equivalent names and T's
and Fs and E's and M's and B's and eyes
if I might I'm not only I'm not always
using the phonetic equivalent I'm using
a different system that enables you to
associate them and when you do you find
all of this is the first letter of the
text of Genesis so this is the first use
of any letter as you go along all of
these letters in these sets are
introduced in the same order r r LR TT f
t e e m and this group is reversed
because it's strung between the front
and the end of the verse it's flipped
over and you also find and I'm not going
to go into a lot of detail here but I
wanted you to have the paper these are
draft
papers that this this this paper that
you should have a copy of here
someplace um what you find is that you
can use these groups these triplet
groups and you can write the first verse
of Genesis out on a bead
string on a bead chain write each letter
on a bead and curl the chain up until
the letters line up with each other you
just make the curl Tighter and Tighter
until the letters all line up and you
stop and when you do that you end up
with a
pattern this pattern
here where all the letters are paired up
and the letters that are not the same
that are paired are these base three
reciprocals in symmetrical positions on
the rubic cube in the alphabet just in
case the the t is a 210 letter and the
the f is the 012 letter Tav and v um the
same with the r and the L the same which
with the E and the M over here and all
the others are paired properly um this
is this last letter is paired as it's
shown on the chart so when you make
exactly six turns and then one turn up
through the middle all the letters line
up with each other and the question is
what does this describe well we know
from mathematics that a
Taurus a donut a bagel Arthur's
Taurus well here let me use the big one
that doesn't make so much noise um can
be mapped out with seven colors and if
one
makes these seven this is a kind of worn
out model the ones that Arthur block
cells knew are more flexible in this
this one's been through the wars um
these seven colors could in a sense
correlate with those seven turns now
that's not exactly right there's there's
more detail there but this was our first
jump on it and when you make the seven
color map and you make all the regions
when they're prop when they're stretched
the same way the same size and shape you
end up with a spiral that has three
turns to it exactly there's two ways you
can you can arrange it one is it has
three turns around for each turn through
the hole and the other form that's the
black line here it's three times through
for one time around and both of these
are seven color Maps they both are
mathematical definitions of the surface
of a donut of a
Taurus and you should read Arthur's
reflexive Universe if you want to know
everything there is to know about the
Taurus it was uh better said than I
could say it so the first thing we
discovered is that the first verse of
Genesis fits on the surface of a Taurus
a donut and all the letters pair up we
tried the second verse I didn't bring it
cuz it's a big chart it's a much longer
verse but the letters pair up the third
verse is shorter and it's easy to see
and i' I've modified the Taurus a little
but you were sort of looking down
through the coil this way and again you
see how the letters pair up very
symmetrically and the same kind of pairs
hold
um there has been statistical work done
on the Hebrew Bible that shows that
there is patterning at the letter
level um the people who did the work
initially
um came to the conclusion that this
proved that the text could only have
been written by some Divine source and
the academic true non-believers who
looked at the same data said that this
proved that people must have edited the
story to make the patterns and this
provve that only man could have written
it um my feeling is that both groups are
biased the data is good there is
patterning in the Hebrew Bible there may
be patterning in the Christian Bible and
there is patterning in the Cor on but
that the people examining this with
prejudiced views are not being
intellectually honest that this is
neither a proof that God did it nor is
it a proof that man did it before you
can say what it is you have to figure
out how it was done and understand not
just from the statistics but from the
process involved where it came from I
think we are on to doing that with what
we're doing here but that's for
later so we found the way of making a
model of the first verse of Genesis that
fit on a donut and then the question is
well that's nice but why would they do
that what's the point of it well you
don't really need the whole dut use this
one again um the seven color map is
enough to specify the donut in fact you
don't even need the seven color map all
you need is the
vortex and if you make the vortex in a
particular way which is something I'll
show you as we go
on um it's not this one where the
outside comes parall to the
equator it's a little like this one
where the outside is a little more
tipped it's not thin like a bagel it's
like a living Taurus an apple a
fruit you see in Genesis 111 and in the
introduction to the Zohar the cabalistic
text they refer to a fruit tree yielding
fruit whose seed is in
itself it's as if there's a circle of
little spheres the seed pack inside of
the meat of the fruit a bigger sphere
now we know if we're modeling something
hyperdimensional if we want to make a
hyper Cube we put a little Cube inside
of a big Cube and connect up the corners
we call it a tessera and the in toout
direction is the hyperd
direction um we know um therefore the
same can be true of a sphere if you have
an ins sphere and an out sphere you have
a hypersphere as Arthur has shown you
can Model A hypersphere as a as a Taurus
so again we're very consistent if you
punch out the seed p and the flower in
the stem you end up with with a thick
donut I didn't bring the model that I
usually bring but this this will serve
and it can fall through itself just like
this does and it has a hole down the
middle and except the cross-section is
different the cross-section is more like
what we have here it's this sort of
elliptical cross-section more or less
elliptical like a like a fruit like a
real
fruit and we found
eventually that if we took off just the
edge edge of the vortex and we shaped it
just so we ended up with a shape that
looked like
this there's a lot more to this than I
just told you one thing that's
distinctive is that this doesn't come
parallel to the equator it comes down
perpendicular to the equator eventually
we discovered that the Taurus was a
little more complex that in fact the
best way to define this shape was was
off of a so-called Taurus knot this is
the 310 Taurus knot the one that's in
the
poster and the reason why this is of
Interest as you can see from what's up
on the wall is that if you look at this
form from different directions you can
see all Shadows two-dimensional outlines
of all the Hebrew
letters H we're pretty sure the same
form or some very very closely related
form produces the Arabic letters and a
related form but not quite the same
produces the Greek letters and so we've
got the first verse of Genesis folding
itself up into a form that when you look
at the form from different directions
makes all the letters in which the text
is written so the question becomes why
would anybody do
that um and we'll talk about
that another thing that comes from the
first verse of Genesis is not only does
it fold itself up into this Vortex form
but it also folds itself up into a
tetrahedron
um in
fact Hebrew is really tricky um this
three-letter combination bit R Shala is
the same as this one here here it's
translated created here this is the
first word translated in the beginning
bit but if we broke the word up into
barah and then sheis we would have
created whatever this word means well
that word means either six or a
thorn six Edge thorn
so it could very well be even even in
the word
level when you look at the thorn you
notice it is entirely
symmetrical it's the lowest order most
compact most symmetrical form in three
dimensions if you look at this Vortex
form it's entirely asymmetrical there's
no two ways you can look at it where to
look the
same the contrast between Symmetry and
asymmetry is this ultimate a contrast is
any possible it's a yin-yang contrast um
it's a fundamental distinction it's a
primary distinction now we know that um
mathematician named Spencer Brown wrote
a book called laws of form which I
talked about before thank you it's our
timekeeping um um and the laws of form
Spencer Brown says um let's see I think
it's quoted in the in one of the older
tourist journals that um you can make a
whole Reality by simply making a Mark
that distinguishes inside from outside
and either Spencer Brown or other
mathematicians have proven that you can
derive all of formal mathematics all
formal logic from that Mark of
Distinction the distinction between
inside and outside the Hebrew letter
bait represents the distinction between
inside and outside bait means a house it
distinguishes between inside and
outside
our little Vortex can be placed inside a
tetrahedron making a light in a meeting
tent an eternal flame hanging on hanging
on three chains in front of a sanctuary
in a synagogue or in a church a green
flame of Islam if you like in the Muslim
tradition um the flame inside and the
tetrahedron outside is again a model of
inside and outside a model of logical
structure and continuous Dynamic process
a rigid masculine logical structure a
continuous cyclical feminine process or
is it a feminine vessel with a
penetrating masculine form inside which
is Yin and which is Yang which is
masculine which which is feminine
depends on your perspective they're not
absolutes it's the contrast that's an
absolute it's the distinction that's
important otherwise you have to keep
track of your convention so we found a
model of primary distinction
geometrically we identified it as
capable of generating all of formal
logic which is a pretty big job and we
find it at the beginning of the text of
Genesis both at the letter level at the
word level and at the level of the whole
first verse well of course there's a
teaching the teaching is that the text
of the Bible um given by God in this
teaching um is structured in a very
interesting way it's said that the
secret of the universe is in the first
letter of the sacred text but if you
can't figure it out from the first
letter God is very merciful and repeats
it for you in Greater detail in the
first word in the first verse in the
first chapter in the first book it's a
hierarchical array at least that's
what's being described we are
discovering that they're telling the
truth if you look at a newborn child
after it's finished doing getting born
in necessities and assuming it's not
swaddled the child is lying there in the
crib and it ends up wiggling its hands
and fingers in front of its eyes I think
it's pretty Universal I don't know does
anybody not think that that's
Universal hasn't observed something like
that what's the child
doing well it's doing something
absolutely
essential you see most of us I can't do
it I don't know which internal feeling
Wiggles my ears I never connected up
that muscle but a newborn child's got a
whole bunch of internal reality it can
move its limbs in the womb even so there
there's a connection between internal
feeling and the ability to move but of
course in the womb there's no outside
the child doesn't hear doesn't see
doesn't
smell it can connect it but there's no
there's no reference doesn't come back
in order for the child to know what
where how who its hands are it has to
project a feeling that moves its fingers
and then it has to see it's actually
moving its fingers not moving its toes
or its nose or something it has to sense
with its external senses see with its
eyes smell with its nose hear with its
ears at the same time as it's internally
moving its own hands that
crosscorrelation between external senses
and internal feelings is what creates
the Incarnation that's what incarnates
us now we don't do it only with our
hands the hands are our archetype we
obviously move the rest of our bodies
and and all Etc and I remember as a very
young child I really couldn't tell if I
bitten my tongue or bitten my lip had to
feel it sometime I just couldn't sort
that one out I hadn't done that I think
that's probably fairly common that they
feelings you don't know which toe it is
sometimes you have you have to work it
out got to check it
out so the process of cross-correlating
internal and external feelings is in
fact what we mean by being incarnate
it's how we know we're
here so the hand which is the archetype
for all of this is Central the principle
it represents is
Central um our speech centers broker
regions and wores regions are taken from
the cortex that controls the hand so our
speech our alphabet which is related to
our speech obviously is naturally
connected to our hand gestures and it's
been clinically demonstrated that in
young children that are learning
language hearing impaired children um
learn hand gestures using the same
neural Maps as normal hearing children
do and I think that's that stands the
reason too so we we're dealing with
something very fundamental to reality
when we're dealing with our hand uh I
didn't bring the quotes this time I
think they're with the other videotape
but basically um my manes and the guide
that perplexed explains a statement that
it's in the Psalms I believe where it
says that a righteous person is supposed
to be aware of God at all times and the
rabbis in their natural way say well how
you supposed to do that that's very nice
but how you do that and the answer is
the way you can be aware of God at all
times is to be aware of your hand at all
times because of the ease of its motions
what that means is if you're aware of
how you're projecting your conscious
will into the external World primarily
by means of your hands could use your
foot too then you're aware by analogy of
how God in principle is projecting the
universe from God's Will and thus you're
aware of God and in in cabalistic
teachings the universe is said to be
projected from God's will as distinct
from God's essence you don't spill your
guts on the outside when you move your
hand you just indicate what's on your
mind so it's not your essence that
you're
giving I really want to go through all
these hand gestures and I want to go
through these meanings um and I want to
show how they're related to Arthur's
turn which we talked about in previous
discussions and how when you take the
turn with its seven levels in this
mirror image form and embed it as
process between unity and wholeness
between the seed and the fruit you end
up with a nine stage
system extending in three levels nine
stages an archetypal level and internal
spiritual level and an external physical
level and you can lay out the mean
meaning of all of these Hebrew letters
based on the logic of Arthur's seventh
cycle on the Taurus and we've discussed
that on previous occasions also and so
what we've done is assign these meanings
logically discovered that in fact they
fit the historical understanding of the
meaning of the letters except instead of
looking like these old Canaanite letters
these old pictograms Which derived from
Pagan Idol idols and Ox the tan Ox of
the solar god of the tan age which was
absolutely unacceptable to
monotheists the Hebrews and later the
Christians and the Muslims they had to
replace the picture of an ox which or
the picture of of these different Pagan
images which derives from these Pagan
images with a gesture a hand gesture
that had the same same basic meaning but
was non idolatrous so instead of the
solar deity being an
ox Pagan symbol one takes one's
hand I can put my pointer down and pick
up another
pointer and points to one's solar plexus
one's own solar
center up here we see some traditional
views here's how Arthur laid out the 12
houses of the zodiac
on his combinational cycle on the
Rosetta Stone of meaning here's Arthur's
Rosetta Stone this is from the um
geometry of meaning and I think it's
probably also in the reflexive Universe
um this circle of 12 houses with these
natural meanings are the same as this
circle of 12 fingers are the same as
this circle of the zodiac this solar
center mapped out on a person standing
there in the place of the tree the
person is hung on the
tree I think we've heard that story a
few places um likewise I brought
along this is um I think from a church
someplace I don't know I've never really
seen one used but I guess it's what they
serve the wafer from or something
someone sent this to me but what you can
see it what it really is is it's top
half of this it's this part here and
this Earth plane here now I'm using it
as a model I'm not saying that that's
what this was intended to be but what
we've got is this this cup this chalice
in the middle see this is this wine cup
this chalice this Grail
cup and so of course the Grail Legends
fit the same model too nobody walk into
that and so this is the top of my of my
the top or the bottom of my apple and
here this is a broken one but you can
see how pretty it is when you make it
really carefully um this is this is the
hand this is all also the wing of the
cherubs sitting on top of the Ark cover
um in fact we've got a computer graphic
that shows that and I'm not sure where
it is in my
pile I think it's worth taking it moment
to find
it yes here it
is the upper picture is the hand model
the lower picture if you turn it
sideways these are the two cherubs with
their wings and the fiery point in the
middle from which God supposedly speaks
from which the projection the seed
center from which the projection takes
place these will these will be available
eventually so that these traditional
rosac crucian type images and here we
have their doves wings well again Wing
flying
wing um all of the symbolism here's
another Greek gods on on a zodiacal
plate here we have an alchemical wedding
we have the Sun and the Moon the Sun and
the Moon
this is the rivers it's the Mari
otherwise known as Mary in the Christian
story um and this is the solar deity and
this from above is the star coming down
or sitting at the center and this
three-way cross in the middle is our
triple cross well I've got more of it in
here than we need forget about the
yellow lines it's the purple lines that
that Define the cross angles of the
tetrahedron it's again this six-sided
thorn
so that they all come together in the
same basic model put some of these
things away now let's just go through
the letters because otherwise I'm going
to run out of time and I really do want
to talk about some other things too and
there's a whole section I didn't get to
which I hope I'll get
to I'm going to use um instead of the
full hand because it's a little hard to
see which Edge it is I'm going to use
the thinner one the finger width one and
I'm going to use my right hand this is a
soft old model and I'm going to use my
left hand now what I see in my right
hand from my eye's own point of view you
could see in my left hand if you look
through the model into my eye of course
sometimes my hand is down here and you
have to be on the floor to do that so
I'm going to have to pick it up to show
it to you but basically we're going to
go through all of these gestures now the
table here is
arranged in what is known as atbash a
against t b against s it's an acronym it
means compare the front to the back of
the alphabet in pairs I can't quite show
it to you yet because I haven't finished
doing the work but it appears that each
one of these pairs is paired on a
different axis and there were 11
axes and that's part of the geometry
that comes out naturally
also so let's go through it I I don't
think I need to look at the chart I
think you can just watch me and then you
can watch the chart and so um you should
be seeing in my left hand what what's
here even though I'm seeing it in my
right hand when I put my hands to my
solar plexus meaning all one
centered the the center of the system I
see the Hebrew letter Olive meaning all
everything archetype when I open my
hands in a birthing gesture breaking
open I see the letter
bait and again you should be able to see
if you know the Hebrew letter bait you
should be able to see it there this is
the Rashi bait gimmel gimmel means camel
a camel goes back and forth between
oases remember we're in a desert culture
here here's the water from the oases and
here the two humps on the back of the
camel back and forth
relationship dollet to pour down to
dispense a Delta is where the river
widens broadens out and disperses the
flow into the sea dollet Pours Down
pours out dispenses divides dutes and
dilates dollet Delta dilate dilute all
the same route
hey means the frame it's a window frame
I'm framing my head I'm framing my
shoulders I've got my hands on my
shoulders hey V is over my spine it's my
spin axis now look I don't have to see
my hand I can always see my hand in my
mind's eye even if it's behind my head
no
problem Zion means to project well
anybody can see I'm
projecting spooky well wait no it's St
Patrick's say not Halloween it's
projecting uh trans walking hey
means to Encompass or to encircle well
down at my perimeter if I look under my
hand I see the
letter T is to hold the hole in your
hand um yud is me I my personal
Consciousness me
me um cough is the palms of my hand
lamid is to learn to abstract is the
flame see here's the flame and it's
reflecting right back into me right back
into my eyes that should be on my other
hand here's the flame here's the
reflector
this is Aladdin's
lamp you hold it in your hand you rub it
and you go into the meditation from
which the magic
manifests there's the crescent and
there's the
star in the Islamic
scheme got as far as lit lit me means
Source the source of speech is at the
throat there's the
me nonon is a neck or Nexus it connects
AM and PM we call it noon
none the fish in the middle of the water
none it's just this Arc here just the
The Arc
part somach means to support or sustain
if I make a cradling motion I see my
somic hanging there in my
hand and we're just we're just going
down um where we are now is coming up
the bottom and we're up to here this is
Sonic iron means eyes and so I put
blinders on my horse I'm the horse
there's the iron sitting right here eyes
projection sight line sighting iron heay
means mouth if you don't want to break
your wrist the only way you're going to
see the pay is to put your hand to your
mouth sadii means righteous upright
clean clean hands upright kof is a
monkey I'm dangling from a tree limb re
is my head raise to project raise Sheen
is to shine and T is
myself notice T is the opposite of
olive notice I'll do it with one of
them this is the letter Sheen in
Hebrew it's supposed to pair with bait
right now that's not drawn as well as it
might but we just turn it around and
there's our
bait did I get those right or I have
them backwards wait a minute I think
that must be Sheen to you that's Sheen
and this is bait to you right great
remember front and
back okay
okay now you don't really need the
models to do it you could look at the
chart and just put your hands in fact we
think that this older elephantine
version of the letters is actually the
outline of the hand itself without even
holding the model except that it's
become stylized and I don't think that's
a good sample of of the
letters now it's very important which
style of alphabet we're looking at the
Modern Hebrew letters are little small
here are these more Square letters the
letters we're making are a more fluid
form form of the same alphabet the um
the far right column is from a Papyrus
that was found on elephan island um in
the it's where the um SE Canal is now I
don't remember which is the red and
which is the dead anymore Red Sea Red
Sea obviously um and is is from 300
BC these are samples of the letters as
they were known in Islamic Spain and
this column here the second one from the
left yeah second one in the boxes is the
actual handwriting of a rabbi noades nak
manes debated with Pablo christiani
under King James II of Aragon around
1200 in a
disputation um forced upon nak manes by
the
Inquisition and during the
disputation um the question of who's the
messiah comes up seems to be a
issue uh between the Christians and Jews
during the Inquisition obviously um and
um nak manes admits that it says in the
scripture that the Messiah is born when
the Temple's destroyed and since the
temple was destroyed in their case about
1200 years earlier the court asked nak
manes so is is the Messiah and he says
well just because someone's born doesn't
mean that's when they become known he
said well look man 1200 years I mean
this guy's get a little old so where is
he he says well the teachings are that
the Messiah is waiting is always
available is waiting in par days in
Paradise now that's very interesting
because about the same time maybe 100 CE
really about the beginning of of the
Christian era and the time when there
was all kinds of difficulties there was
a rabbi named akba one of the principal
authors of the talid the oral Torah um
and also um supposedly one of the
authors or redactors of the sephira the
book of formation that describes the
formation of the alphabet and Akiba was
known as The Master of the alphabet the
Bal the master of the
letters and akba is described in the
talid as having been achieved great
levels of meditational skill which was
still permitted those days this was
while rabbis were still meditating and
it was before the Nan Council which
threw all this stuff out of Christianity
also um akba is said to have gone in
meditation to par days to
Paradise um and he went I guess they
went separately but they all did it um
with three friends three other rabbis
who were equally qualified one was so
overwhelmed by the ego death experience
in pares that he stayed there died
didn't come back another one came back
but he had a bad trip he came back
psychotic third guy came back um he gave
up his religion he became a total
heretic but he was still considered so
smart that they still quote him in the
tment even though he's dirt but he's
smart well you know you have your PR
and akba uh akba comes back H and he's
the hero of course he comes back and I'm
not sure sure of the historical temporal
sequence here but either before or after
because had to be one or the other Akiba
comes back and he appoints Ben casba the
Jewish General then fighting the Roman
wars against the Jews with the Romans um
as Baraka Baraka means son of the
star this is within what a 100 Years of
the founding of the Christian religion
and here's a rabbi designating a messiah
who's son of the star again strange
story well unfortunately or we would
have heard different um the Romans kill
Baraka and that ends the story um he
doesn't get resurrected in this version
this is a different religion Jewish
version the point is that akba goes to
pares based on his knowledge of the
alphabet discovers the Messiah principle
and comes back and makes a statement
about it nak manes 1200 years later is
telling the Inquisition about this so
where's the Messiah where's this this
Messiah effect this this outof body ego
death world changing death and rebirth
effect it's in the meditation where's
the meditation the meditation is in the
text letter by
letter in the text of of of the Hebrew
Bible perhaps also although we don't the
gospels have been translated so it's not
clear if you can do it at the letter
level there and also perhaps there's
there's cing in the Quran um is it
throughout in every case I don't know if
it's like DNA and they didn't have to
know about DNA to know that DNA is
logical the structure of DNA was
predicted before it was discovered it
was predicted mathematically based on
information Theory they didn't have our
information Theory but they still had
philosophical depth that could have
given the same
information um DNA has dense coding and
wide coding so that you don't have to
specify a Direction with any one letter
it could be a sequence of letters that
pointed it to a Direction youd still
have room to make any any word you
wanted it's just that sum total of the
letters would get you from here to
there um the point is that the text if
one can follow the
way becomes the way to the miach Messiah
experience the ego death and rebirth
experience and if this is true the only
place that such a prophetic tradition a
science of Consciousness could credibly
be stored and have come down to us has
got to be in scriptural text nothing
else has survived intact it's the only
source is that one is not allowed to
change even the slightest part of any
letter and the Dead Sea Scrolls confirm
that essentially there have been no
changes the essentially similar
Samaritan version of the old uh of the
Books of Moses um doesn't contain this
coding the spellings are different and
there's a whole academic debate about
that um I'm not going to do this with
you this is from a dictionary this is an
attempt to deduce to find out if our
interpretation of what the letters mean
is actually consistent with what you
find in a dictionary so I took the
suffix in Hebrew y nun and look listed
all the words that are all the
three-letter words that end in y nun
each one has a one letter of the
alphabet in front we know what each
letter means too so we can in theory
interpret these decipher them you can
look at the comparisons for yourself I
think there's one to I left out that
either means I I skipped it on the on
the text editor or there was no word in
the
dictionary what we find is it confirms
the meaning yud is a pointer your hand
nun as I said is to connect but a final
nun is to connect with infinity to go to
the nth degree pointing to the end of
degree is what we mean by going on or
pointing or just the in ending to
something and if you put the in ending
on the meaning of each of the letters at
the beginning of the word you get
something that corresponds very closely
to the dictionary meaning for for the
word so the word for instance Dean
Justice law and judgment dollet means
dispensation dispensing dispensation of
pointing pointing the finger at
dispensing Justice we call it that
um I don't know the pronunciation the
vowels here Zion Yun means an arm
equipment an axe a spear or a weapon
Zion is a project is to project and
yudan is to go on yon is to go on
project and go on is what a weapon or a
spear is you can look at the list for
yourself so that takes us through the
letters um it takes us through the
letters based on a logical structure
which we described in The Matrix of
meaning for sacred alphabets tape which
we did here about 3 years ago maybe a
little longer now um The Logical
structure gives you the 27 pointing
directions which are equivalent as you
may see from something else I handed out
to the 27 lines that make up the shantra
the creation mandala for the viic
tradition nine interlace
triangles now I don't have a big poster
of it no I don't have a big poster of it
but you should have you have the
drawings and these nine
triangles can be decanted as the little
drawing
shows into these nine triangles which if
I point them right at you you should be
able to see the
shantra I may have it upside down you
forgive me
if you look at it sideways you'll notice
that these tips all line up on a line
and these tips all line up and the two
lines form two parallels and there's a
centri
pin these nine are spiraling around on
this line system in the same
way as when I take my tetrahelical
column and bend it
around into this form it's as if the
triangles are spread around the whole
circle and you can look at at your own
drawings and with the videotape we'll
include the
drawings let's see that I bring I think
I have them here too someplace let me
shuttle through some of my uh notes and
catch up a
bit um here's an interesting one this is
from um the mathematical Intelligencer
but it's a copy of something that was in
Winfrey's book on Chaos on cardiac
activity this is a map of the timing
cycle the
heart it's as you can
see the troil
knot it's one of the forms that produces
this
geometry if we take I use my shalele
here if we take the uh this guy and we
connect up the letters that form these
base three pairs that pair off the
letters in the
alphabet they make this swirl of
triangles this is exactly the same as
the rubic cube except now it's on a form
related to the alphabet directly and not
a rubic cube that didn't exist in those
days um these nine triangles should be
the same as these that hasn't been fully
demonstrated yet but we're getting
closer and closer because you can see
how you could flip this around and for
those who want to talk about the math
I'll show you what I think is going to
happen but I haven't finished drawing it
yet those same nine triangles
also enable you to take the
alphabet and connect the base three
triplets that we're using for
correlation with the traditional Left
Right atbash
Pairs and again you get this nine
triangle strung on an umbilic toroid
this is explained to some extent in the
Taurus journals that we handed out so if
you don't have this Taurus journal or
the previous one you can get it from
there and then of course there's this
old drawing which I used to have up on
the wall which I don't think I put up no
and I didn't bother putting it up we
made this
um Shamrock troil troil form again three
coil form put the letters on it in
alphabetical order and on this form I've
drawn in these purple triangles those
are the same nine triangles but now
you're looking down into the Taurus but
those triangles are the same as the
triangles
here these over here
so when you're looking at higher
dimensional forms or complicated
three-dimensional forms you need to look
at many different views to get a sense
of all the relationships no one view is
going to show you how everything is
related okay I was going to get to that
now I want to um show you something new
um which is not fully developed yet
either but it's really very interesting
for those of you who know something
about the cabala and about sepher and
the sapharic tree the Tree of Life in
cabala if you take the two different
seven color maps and peel off the two
different spirals this one goes around
three times for one time through the
hole this one goes through the hole
three times for one time around and you
put the two of them together assuming
that the same
handedness you get this form the white
line is from the bigger toroid and the
blue line is from the smaller one in
fact the blue line is the same as this
green
line when you put them together they
intersect
they weave they interleave just like you
were making a
basket they intersect in 10
places those 10 intersections are the 10
sphart on the tree of life and if you
plug this model into the
sepher and into the cabalistic texts all
the relationships that are described on
the tree of life are confirmable you can
see why they made the claim why they
connected this idea to that idea and
this idea to that idea I'm going to
write it up and that'll be another
present ation but this breaks open the
whole idea of the tree of life and for
those of you who have studied the lanic
cabala there's a discussion of the two
circulations that come together to make
the
tree for some reason nobody seems to
have made this model recently I'm sure
they did in the past so this is our tree
of life model which we're going to
expand on these 10
intersections probably this isn't proven
correlate with these 10 points which are
the spin axes of the tetrahedron
remember the Vortex and the
tetrahedron are
compliments they should stay compliments
as we grow
them if they're true
compliments I have a list here this
doesn't prove anything this is anecdotal
I'm going to I have a list here of a few
Hebrew words I don't know how many
people know Hebrew but I'm not even
going to tell you what the letters are
and you can figure it out from my hand
motions I'm going to move my hand
between these letters and you're going
to tell me what the word means now I did
one last time which is one an easy one
and it's this
one soon as you know what it is just
raise your hand or say shout out what am
I
describing remember I'm Columbus and I'm
meeting the American Indians for the
first time and my diary says that I'm
speaking them in Hebrew because they're
the Lost
tribes well unfortunately 1492 is when
the Muslims and Jews were expelled from
Spain and they signed on the crew and we
know Rabbi nak manes because he was from
Portugal
knew these hand gestures for the letters
if Columbus's crew did this in front of
the Indians they would say Columbus was
describing something that is round giml
lamid means round in Hebrew now if I did
this you know I meant to
me to led me y if I wanted to say come
I'm not asking you to guess him I'm
doing it quickly come come bait Olive
come come to
me
um let's see which one do I want to do
um blah blah blah oh this is these two
are good if I can do them um these are
opposites one means open the other means
close Okay this is one of them if I can
do it
right and the other one is
you can see the emotions are opposite
the first one was
open p to
a and the second one was closed
SE zipped
up um in Hebrew the word for a
commandment from God is a Mitzvah it
comes from the
root um CA which occurs I believe in
Exodus um it's a command from God
let me get it right
T to draw down righteousness
righteous over the spine and extend it
over the
shoulders a commandment from God I think
that gives you an idea we there are a
few more here which if you want to ask
questions we can get to um here is the
lightning bolt that is said to descend
the tree of life you will find the same
lightning bolt on this form but I'm not
going to show it to you now we'll save
that for next time
and one other pretty thing this is known
as Dei
surface it's a mathematical form
everything nests back at Infinity every
generational cycle connects to Infinity
directly down the middle but each
generation is separate on the outside
this is the masculine path cut off and
circumcised at every generation this is
the feminine path umbilic to umbilic
womb to womb
endlessly they are orthogonal they're at
right angles to each other and yet they
form a whole Continuum a flower within a
flower within a flower onion skin onion
skin shells Shell Shell shells layer on
layer on layer Vortex on Vortex on
Vortex here we have a pentagonal spiral
in two Dimensions that becomes an
octahedral pyramid in three dimensions
if we put this on the tip of the pyramid
this Square form and pull it out it
becomes a tetrah helix in projective
four
dimensions you can always trade
dimensionality for symmetry five
symmetry in 2D four symmetry in 3D three
Symmetry and 40 and of course
this is
also pick at the bottom part The
Vortex and in fact out of this
Cornucopia comes all the platonic solids
all of the
symmetries they flow naturally one after
another as you open up the hand the
whole gamut of platonic in our comedian
solids tumbles out in order out of the
vortex out of the uh what do they call
this
cornicopia horn let's talk a little
philosophy
here one of the principles of mystical
teaching of spiritual teaching of a
science of Consciousness is that you
have to somehow bring yourself into
resonance with that which you're
studying you have to obliterate that
separation between foreign and itself
you have to identify with the feelings
going on whether it's following the way
in the da the way whether it's following
the way in Judaism called halaka which
is the law which is the ritual law which
is literally translated the way or
whether it's following the way of Jesus
and Christianity it's the same idea
there probably an
Islamic um version of that too I don't
know the term
um the way that's that's being talked
about
the the the issue here is to make
yourself like the model well how do you
make yourself like the model well the
model is really interesting this hand
model connects this inside to this
outside it unifies them in the hand in
one
unity in the talmid which is the written
version of the oral companion to the
written Hebrew Bible which is not
accepted by anything but but Jewish
tradition but never nevertheless goes
back about 2,000 years
also um it's taught there's a phrase for
a person of Integrity they're said to be
toku cavaro toku is like our word take
it means take in and cavaro is like our
word Barak from here creation bar sheet
to project out to create a person who
was Toko cavaro whose inside is like
their outside is morally
transparent whether it's a righteous
person aoic or saint Mother Teresa
type it's someone who's morally
transparent their inside and their
outside are the same that's the really
the only qualification for doing this
work or learning these ideas it looks
like a lot of mathematics but the
mathematics is only the spreadsheet it's
only the lattice for holding the
information together and keeping it in a
way that you can use it the math by
itself is sterile it's only if we
emulate the feelings that are being
cataloged by the math that this can come
alive and that we can deeply understand
it we can hear it inside not just
superficially not just
outside all right so the key to doing
this work is to make
oneself have a measure of
Integrity um I think it was Einstein
that said I I don't have the exact quote
but I'll get close to it he said that
you shouldn't um judge a theory by the
data you should only judge a theory by
its internal
coherence internal coherence is
integrity everything fits together in a
harmonious and complete ho a whole a
model of
Integrity so the issue here is how does
one make oneself like the model well
there are many ways in which that that
happens um it's no secret we we know it
already the model is a model hand the
hand connects our inside and our outside
we can always see our hand in our Mind's
Eye if we pick something up behind us we
can feel it with our hand and bring the
image into our mind um the hand is the
human embodiment of a general principle
that connects Consciousness and physics
or physics and Consciousness inside and
outside so this is one model of
Integrity if you will it generates the
whole alphabet
[Music]
the second part of this this paper the
second part in the back is a discussion
of the Hebrew text
sepher now
sepher the book of formation it's
cabalistic text there are many different
translations um the best one available
today is one by AR Kaplan um published
by Sam Weiser which you can get um in
any event it supposedly is a discussion
of the creation of the AL alet but if
you read anybody's translation you're
not going to figure out how what they're
talking about has to do with making the
alphabet however if you plug these
models and this interpretation in you'll
figure it out one of the questions
that's always come up is how much math
did they know in the in the old days how
could they have done this well it's
difficult to prove for instance
that people knew about this interl
pattern but if you look at the second
verse of the seph which is at least a,
years old probably 2,000 years old and
may even be 3,000 years old you find and
you can read this for yourself the first
verse of the SE reads in Translation 10
Spirit of nothingness 22 Foundation
letters three mothers seven doubles and
Elementals um unfortunately that first
line T SP of nothingness doesn't tell
you a lot what's a Sparro and what's a
nothingness and if you look in
various translations of sephir you find
the key word that doesn't seem to work
is the word bimma in Hebrew which is
either one word or two words and which
has many different
translations what we did is realized
that a text at this old is just like a
Bible text it was probably written
almost certainly written without
vowelization it was almost certainly
written without word divisions which
means that you're free to break the text
up into different word clusters if you
want to and if you do that as you can
read here and break up the first phrase
which
isar
into and then the
letters m he what you find is if this is
the
Sophi then these remaining letters are
the letters
listed and the actual second verse of
the seph says make this woolly ball out
of the letters that we've just
discovered make the wlly ball out of the
first verse of
Genesis it's a little hard for you to
have eight letters all coincidental all
connected together fitting exactly where
they where they are and have it not be
meaningful it's a lot harder to to make
it non-meaningful than to see it as
meaningful so I've given these Pages out
and people watching the videotape if if
it comes out well we we'll make it
available will include this paper with
the videotape so you can examine
it the the idea is that there are my
Idols by the way that's in quotes I
really don't don't mean that these are
Idols in the sense of simple graven
images that simple people worship in the
ways that our culture tends to put down
the idols I'm talking about are the
cultural paradigms that we all live by
every day um the beliefs and science the
beliefs in in um business in our
government um um our way of seeing the
world um these aren't false Idols at all
they're reality so I don't mean Idols in
the sense of false I mean Idols in sense
of embodiments of important spiritual
truths as they're understood in
different cultures and when as I
presented previously you dip below that
stratum that individual cultural level
and get down to the core you find that
there's an abstract level that appears
to be common to all cultures or at least
to most and certainly the higher and
greater and more refined the more they
they tend to converge and people have
proposed they've been common sources too
our model says that there may have been
common sources for different cultural
teachings but that also they may have
Arisen independently um and still be the
same because they're based ultimately on
our self-aware form of
Consciousness so the first thing I would
like to do um is to read you a poem um
which you've probably all heard I
remember hearing it once or twice when I
was in high school um and I'm going to
walk through it and try to identify some
of the terms with some of the sacred
geometry that we have up here but um I'm
not going to be able to do that first
I'm just going to read the poem but see
as I say the words if you can spot
analoges to what I'm going to say in
this
drawing we have here a kind of a fruit a
kind of an apple a model of wholeness an
orphic egg uh a light in the meeting
tent a a um a walking cypress tree to to
the Sufi tradition um there are 12 on
the circle and we'll see why that is um
we're dealing with about the alphabet um
you could say that this is a river this
is an Earth plane
um let me read
it this is um Samuel Samuel Taylor kid's
kuon um and I'm not a very good reader
so I'll bear with me um one of the first
things that comes up is what does the
word the name kublan
mean um I don't know for sure but
there's an interesting quality in Hebrew
and in some other ancient languages and
that is that the vowels are left out and
that you can read the meaning from the
consonant alone so if we drop out the
vowels of kublan we get kbl and
khn and this may be a silly coincidence
I really don't know I haven't done the
research most of the coincidences I'm
going to tell you are not silly this one
may be silly you could read that as
cabala
cohain um you could say that this is a
description of something cabalistic from
a Priestly perspective and as it turns
out when you get to the end of the poem
there's a kind of confirmation of that
so let me just read it and see what kind
of imagery it brings
up in zanadu did kublan a stately
pleasure Dome decree where Alf the
sacred River ran through Caverns
measureless to man down to a sunless sea
so twice 5 miles of fertile ground
ground with walls and Towers were
girdled round and here were Gardens
bright with sinuous reals were blossomed
many and incense bearing tree and here
were forests ancient as the hills and
folding Sunny spots of greenery but oh
that deep romantic Chasm which slanted
down the Green Hill of thwart a cedar
cover a Savage place is Holy an
enchanted as air beneath a waning moon
was haunted by woman whing for her Demon
Lover
and from this Chasm with ceaseless
turmoil seething as if this Earth in
fast thick pants were breathing a mighty
Fountain momently was forced amid whose
Swift half interred burst you huge
fragments Ved like rebounding hail or
chaffy grain beneath the thresher flail
in mid these dancing rocks at once and
ever it flung up momently the sacred
River five miles Meandering with a
amazing motion through wood and Dale the
sacred River ran then reached the
caverns measure measureless to man and
sank and tumult to a lifeless ocean and
mid this tumult Kubler heard from afar
ancestral voices prophesizing War the
shadow of the Dome of pleasure floated
Midway on the waves where was heard the
mingled measure from The Fountain and
the caves it was a miracle of rare
device a sunny pleasure Dome with caves
of ice a damsel with a damer in a vision
once I saw it was an abian maid and on
her duler she played singing of Mount
abora could I revive within me her
Symphony and song to such a deep Delight
would win me that with music loud and
long I would build that dome in air that
Sunny Dome those caves of ice and all
who heard should see them there and all
should cry beware beware his flashing
eyes his floating hair weave a circle
around him Thrice close your eyes with
holy dread for he on honeydew hath fed
and drunk the mil milk of
paradise let me walk through it again
and see if I can give you some sense of
how what I just read might refer to what
we're looking at um you should know that
Samuel Samuel Taylor CID was an opium
addict we are told um and he was um
financed in his poetry and writing uh by
Thomas and Joshua and Hosea Wedgewood of
of the famous China Fame I think it says
it on the copy and he worked with people
like Charles Lamb and William woodsworth
and Robert souy um some of which were
well known to have been involved in
mystical Pursuits so they might have had
an awareness of the model that we're
talking about and in an opium Revy um a
poem describing the sacred geometry that
we're saying is common to experience and
cosmology might have been prompted by
that cosmology the poem might have been
prompted so
zanadu is an interesting word
itself um except I don't remember the
reference so I can't go into that but we
uh we tracked down a Hebrew word that
actually makes sense of it do you
remember what it was
Cynthia we we translate anyhow I could
look it up in the dictionary but I'm not
going to do it now a stately pleasure
Dome
well let's
say that this is the
Dome Alf Alpha Olive the alphabet say
acred
River of course you could call the whole
the whole form a sacred River and this
is just the shadow of it on an Earth
plane um
Caverns um Tower
walls um an incense bearing tree the
central part is is a tree as those
who've seen previous lectures realize
that we're going to give give other
examples um a waning moon the the face
down here the the bottom is a crescent
way raining
Moon um floated Midway on the waves
while this whole thing floats on this
water level this Earth and level in the
middle um Mount of Bora the beginning of
the text of Genesis starts ber sheath
Bora
sheath um and at the very end he says
weave a circle around him Thrice well
you can't see it from there but you can
see it here it literally has three rings
that defined it three loops and
these three
Loops so there's three loops around the
floor and that's going to come in handy
when we talk about other metaphors here
um for he on honeydew hath fed if you
look in a Hebrew dictionary and look up
what a honeydew is try to find the
closest reference to that you get a word
that refers to the Mana that was given
in The Exodus story um and the word in
Hebrew that refers to a honeycomb and
the translation there is from L's
translation of of book of Exodus
ISAT if you take that letter by letter
off our alphabet charts and look at what
the word sapat means it means the
highest or the most complete mouth that
points to Something in circling
itself a mouth that points to Something
in circling
itself so our little uh
honeydew which turns out to be a
melon it turns out also the word melon I
believe there's a reference buried in
here someplace which we'll get to later
is the same word as the word for fleece
or wool in one of the languages that
we're going to discuss and so we're
going to find that the search for the
Golden Fleece in this Sufi soft sufa
form is about this honeydew
melon that's made up of wool the word in
Hebrew or Arabic for wool is saf or suf
thus sufis thus sofa meaning a storm
cloud which we talked about last year um
thus the Sufi round dance the a sof of
the cabalistic tradition all of them
mean wool fuzzy puffy cloudlike
so there's
kuon and he started this
off and I I read that because I liked
the poem and I was surprised to find
that in the classic piece of poetry that
I had to read in high school there was
something calistic I don't know how it
snuck through I guess they didn't they
didn't see what I saw in
it one of the most important
ideas is
that what we're doing
here seems to be very complex it's got
all this mathematical forms these knots
and everything and I mean um think about
it the queen of the Sciences is physics
the king is mathematics the most subtle
part of mathematics is topology
anthropology is often done with not
Theory now go back to the ancient world
what experimental medium was
available what did people work with did
they have computers no did they have our
modern mathematical formalisms no did
they have algebra no did they have
calculus no we don't think so maybe in
some other
form what did everyone do well they
lived in tents and they moved around in
the desert and they kept animals and
they raised crops and they made ships
occasionally and they they made farts
and drag stuff around and all of that um
you don't have to be a mathematical
genius you just have to be a decent
Carpenter to know two-legged stools fall
over and three-legged stools stand up
they knew that kind of math um you had
to be able to make rope and tie knots
and weave cloth and weave baskets
because that's what you put stuff in for
your normal living these are all weaving
patterns this is a
wreath it's not some fancy thing from
some modern mathematical topology this
is what somebody making a wreath 3,000
years ago out in the desert would have
probably done they would have woven a
bunch of straw a bunch of cloth or a
bunch of thread that they made up
somehow maybe even a bunch of wool into
a wreath into a woven pattern we're also
going to see where they got the patterns
from so that the technology for doing
this kind of stuff this work was
available even much higher technology
was available in some cases um Beno
mandelbrot the fellow who's given cred
um given credit for the discovery of
fractal mathematics about 15 years ago
20 years ago now about 20 years ago now
I was asked um who should get credit for
bringing forth fractal mathematics it um
his he wrote the forward I believe to um
Pitkin and sa's book I'm not sure now on
fractals um and in the in the in the
preface he says in the introduction he
says that credit for fractal Theory
although obviously not for making the
images because they didn't have the
computers goes to
Archimedes Archimedes was aive when the
Hebrew Bible was first translated into
Greek about 300 years BC so yes they had
the mathematics it wasn't in our form
but they had the subtlety they had the
sophistication and that we're finding
these patterns are woven patterns really
means that they had all the means
necessary in fact weaving is preliterate
I mean there were Bic Traditions that
went around you know weaving Persian
rugs and moving through the Middle East
well before anybody started writing down
anything at least that's what we think
historically um I wanted to point out
and did we put it up maybe we didn't
maybe we didn't I guess we didn't well
all right I'll have to hold this guy up
now let's hold this one up because you
can see it clearly it's got three little
loops on
it this is our
St Patrick's Day
Shamrock this is our three-leaf clover
in this case so happy St Patrick's Day
to all of you who are celebrating St
Patrick's Day um St Patrick of course
drove the serpents out of
Ireland so maybe he was talking about
this too I don't know that's pushing a
little far um I read you the story in a
previous occasion um of ri's poetic
description of the Mev Levy Sufi round
dance um the L Sufi tradition I could be
wrong but I'm pretty sure this was in
nosis magazine um recently um originated
in the abazia region of what was
previously Soviet Georgia where there is
now a rebellion and people are getting
killed if you look at a map as to where
abazia is you find it's just across a
little straight from Sebastapol in the
Crimea which is where the ashkanazi the
European Jews went when they left the
Middle East as opposed to the safari
Jews which went which went out through
the Mediterranean and so there is really
very little coincidence in room's
description of the med Levy round dance
fitting the same description that we
have found for the hand model except to
roomi the grain that no Granary
comprehends is this little seed in the
middle now did you ever see in the
ancient world what a what a mill that
grinds flour looks like there are
two big Stones one on the bottom and one
on the top like these two hemispheres
and there's a hole in the the top you
dribble the Grain in and you turn the
stones in between it on this plane the
grain is ground so this is our model
Millstone Hamlet's Mill um and there's
the seed the grain that L Granary
comprehends because this is a
meditational form this is a spiritual
form not a physical
one um roomie talks about a walking
cypress tree well you can see this
actually even looks a little like a
cypress tree with its Tangled Twisted
Roots sitting below the waterline at the
bottom and springing up above and its
branches going in directions on the side
it's a walking cypress
tree um he talks about um a circle of
dancers around the Divine Point well out
here we have four fingers the thumb goes
in the middle and so if there three
hands three hands on top there'd be a
circle of 12 fingers on this
perimeter those are the circle of 12
dancers they could be the 12 imms they
could be the 12 TR they could be the 12
houses of the zodiac they could be the
12 apostles they could be any of the
other 12 around ones 12 knights around
the round
table
um roomy also talks about a fountain of
light this is the fountain part and he
talks about a waterfall this is the
waterfall
part and so room's description of the
Mev Sufi round dance appears to describe
the same sacred geometry except in the
case of roomi one is supposed to be
dancing it making oneself like it well
there's my answer to where the path in
Islam is because the sufis are mostly
identified with the Islamic tradition
these days and the round dance is in
fact a path one takes to make oneself
like this first verse of Genesis
spinning around like this
donut okay let me continue um there's
some more reading to be done
here um but before I get to it I wanted
to to make another point I was talking
with Professor Richard rhods UC Berkeley
the other day um in the Linguistics
Department I believe I hope I'm getting
that right
and he reminded me of something that
he'd come across I guess a while ago um
in the Japanese World there is a
tradition of samurai sword
making and what Richard pointed out is
that you didn't really know need to know
how to make a samurai sword all you did
need to know was know how to follow the
tradition exactly that the ritual even
amongst people who don't know what
they're doing can serve to preserve the
technology the Deep teachings
now that may be exactly what's happened
in all of our modern religions is that
there are different embodiments of
different ritual systems that make sense
in different cultural
contexts if you follow them you follow a
path that embodies in you these
spiritual feelings these experiences
whether in your mind's eye you're
drawing your roof brain chatter down
slowly to a single point of
meditation or whether you you are the
hero descending to the depths below the
Earth plane and then climbing the
spiritual mountain in seven sacred
quests back towards your
goal in the external world it's the same
model this is the model of the hero's
journey as Joseph Campbell's presented
it on PBS over the last several years
well until recently
anyway um let me read you from a few
other Traditions here and I'm going to
try to be brief um I think we've given
you some of these quotations and not all
of them though um this is from Germanic
mythology and the fate of Europe by
Ralph mner um printed in revision volume
13 number one
1990 he's talking about Odin's three
ways of knowledge
three there are three stories of Odin
that illustrate the character of this
wandering truth Seeker magician they
exemplify three ways of knowledge that
form part of the wisdom teachings of the
ancient European people ways of
knowledge that we have for the most part
lost and would do well to remember the
first story is told in the poem haval
words of the high one in which odm
recounts how he hung himself
voluntarily in self-sacrifice from the
world tree yasol I hope I'm pronouncing
that right which is the axis Mundy
there's a spin axis through this thing
from the stem to the seeds um the
central pillar axis of the world of the
world
w o r l d w h i r l e d world I guess so
um which holds all the various worlds of
existence together in a unitary
framework there it is to be hung from a
great tree echo's ancient Asiatic
shamanic initiation practices and he
goes on and on and he also says Odin
speaks of
fasting and being pierced by a
spear now I think most people whether
they're Christian or not will recognize
the story of early Christianity
parallels what Ralph mner is saying was
basis of the philosophy involving Odin
in Europe in the old days um and there's
some poetry here too and he says both
fasting and self-inflicted plan are
class classic components of shamanic
Vision Quest of the ordeal type I think
he's misinterpreting but let me read the
poem um he says I know that I hung on
that wind swept tree wind swept so storm
cloud nine days and nights well we're
going to get into the nine cycle pretty
quickly pierced by the spear sacrific to
Odin myself to myself
self-referential on that great tree
whose roots are
unknown and I will skip continuing
except for the next part of the poem
where he says neither food nor drink did
they give me I leaned downwards took up
the runes with a cry then I came down
Odin is able to descend from his
voluntary crucifixion when he discovers
the runes the secret symbol language of
nature the runic alphabet which will'll
maybe mention a few more times in some
other quotes is what comes from this
legend in the European
tradition okay um this is from nor myth
North Norse myths introduced and retold
by Kevin Crosley Holland published by
Pantheon fairtown folklore Library um
and I'll just read from it he says a
great many mythologies have a tree or
column or Mountain at the center of the
world a tree or column the mountain at
the center of the world more
specifically the symbol of three Cosmic
regions connected by a tree three
regions connected by the
tree that we find a North North not
doing good with Norse Norse mythology
also appears in viic Indian and Chinese
mythologies HR Ellis Davidson has
written of yasol that
the fact that it formed a link between
the gods mankind the Giants and the dead
meant it was visualized as a kind of
ladder reaching up to heaven and
downwards to the underworld a ladder
reaching up and down up and down latter
see the rungs
rungs which is going to be on the tetrah
Helix uh that was the on the world the
conception of a Road between the world
is one which is familiar in the beliefs
of shamanistic religions well we've
talked about the the idea of a road or a
path um or a
way
um and I'm not going to go much more
with this because it'll take too much
time but he talks about nine worlds
encompassed by the tree nine nights
hanging on the tree nine magic songs um
nine human beings nine animals there's a
whole bunch of Nines in this if you want
to check the references later I can give
them to you but I think you get the
drift basically what um Robert John and
Brenda Dunner saying in margins of
reality which is an excellent book which
I can summarize very quickly they did
experiments at the Princeton engineering
anomalies research lab published work um
which has then been published in a book
also um they found that extra sensory
effects were real but within the limits
of the uncertainty principle so they
don't violate determinism now I may be
overstating that and you should read the
book for yourself but that's what I got
from it I think it's a beautiful finding
because it means that you can have extra
sensory effects and still have logic
it's quantum mechanical World anyhow he
says here that um Newton wrote
extensively on Bible prophecy studied
the occult symbolism in the structure of
Solomon's Temple in the Great Pyramid of
CH chops and exended immense effort
performing experiments in its private
alchemical laboratory his concept of a
universal gravitational force connecting
all bodies in the cosmos was clearly
influenced by ancient mystical
ponderings on the subject and I'm going
to leave leave it there um except at the
end he says the mystery by um another
biographer has observed Newton regarded
the ultimate mechanism of change in the
universe to reside in quote the mystery
by which mind could control matter
unquote this is from Philosophy from
thali anx
anaxagoras um also from Egyptian light
and Hebrew Fire by Carl
lucard um he's talking about anaximander
and he says um here we arrived at a
crucial point in early Greek philosophy
namely at anaximander vision of the
cosmo
cosmogonic process separating separating
out that in turn is brought about by an
eternal Motion in the apirion all things
come and return to the apirion the
infinite or boundless substratum of the
universe and we're going to find of
course that our Taurus literally is the
first distinction in an infinite
isotropic homogeneous Cosmic Jello in a
peran and a sof and infinite nothingness
uh um Quantum vacuum I think is it's
current
name um of special interest is
information on an axamer provided by
theopus hope I got that right as
originally given by usus
Yus he says that at the birth of this
Cosmos a germ of hot and cold was
separated off germ seed from the Eternal
substance out of this a sphere of flame
grew a sphere of flame grew about the
vapor surrounding the earth The Vapor
the the clouds surrounding the earth
like the ark round a
tree when this was torn away and shut
off in certain Rings the sun moon and
stars came into existence the sun is the
center the Moon is the Crescent here and
there's a Vortex that carries the stars
in the Kepler bod theory on the surface
of the bowl of the
Taurus um thus instead of the more
concrete first in the cosmos of nun as
the water to which thales had referenced
and ax Amanda has returned to a more
vaporlike and less sensate
conceptualization of the Egyptian nun
from within it he derived the world and
then the sun moon and stars all these
emanated from the
center successfully contained within
rings of fire well we don't have the
rings of fire there indeed in the
Orthodox Egyptian context these fiery
emanation Rings provide a rational
pattern for visualization oh wait a
minute a rational pattern for
visualization seeing a pattern of
letters in one's Mind's Eye a path of
meditation maybe maybe
atom was the central primeval Hill
Sun from when all lesser realities came
these successive emanations spewing from
the hills Sun Center puff forth as rings
of fire like a playful smoker May blow
smoke rings that
emanate and I'm skipping a little um
here there too the godheads emissions
are mentioned as fire or as the light of
raw and at the very end of this little
quote the dynamic link between atam and
raw earthy Hill and athetic fire
emanation is in the later generation of
anadian gods depreciated from shub to
gab sh shu to GB thus to Father Earth
the he's talking about an an anagon of
Egyptian gods or God ideas and the
anagon again is just a cycle of nine and
as we're going to see repeatedly in
these models we're going to be looking
at these cycles of Nine the Hebrew
alphabet with 27 letters is three layers
of cycles of Nine the hyper sphere
Define where the 27 lines that solve the
general cubic equation also produces
three layers of nine this is from Cox's
model of the polytope
221 I think in the interest of a uh
smooth transition I'm going to mention
um the allegory of Plato's Cave which
I'm going to hope to read you at the end
of the discussion um from this little
discussion here where he's talking about
the allegory of Plato's Cave as relating
to an ego def
experience which is of course part of
what this is all about this would be
Plato's
Cave here is the sun here's the Earth
plane if we were standing here the sun
we would cast Shadows on the wall of the
cave where did they get the models from
we discussed models of the cyclicity of
life these these solar cycle
Zodiacs druidic principles of worshiping
um sacred trees and growing things and
the the fuar the druidic alphabet Celtic
alphabet matches these living processes
also um each culture comes up with a
different cyclic process to represent
important considerations but we all have
the same database we've all got hands
we've all got bodies we all have
internal spiritual experience one way or
another sometimes you have to fall off a
Dunkey and hit your head sometimes you
take a psychedelic sometimes you do a
breathing exercise but it's accessible
to all um we all experience the her
Journey The Seven Ages of man
Shakespeare seven as we go through
life and we all observe the heavens in
fact observing the heavens is another
one of those technologies that we know
the Ancients did a lot of had a lot of
the Egyptians the Babylonians the
samarians the Greeks everybody observes
the heavens you got it you want to know
when to plant your
crops well if You observe the heavens
here's Keith crlo but there were another
number of other people involved this by
the way is the 35 tus knot from math
book this is from um plain algebraic
curves by people's names I can't
pronounce published in basil Switzerland
um the 35 Taurus
knot this is the 34 Taurus knot it's got
four lobes and three
intersections this is the 35 Taurus knot
turned inside out it makes half of it
the other half down there put the two
together and you get the 310
knot this is the form that most tightly
correlates the first letters of the text
of Genesis it's the simplified version
of what we started with looks like an
apple doesn't it even has a little womb
in the middle and a womb really does
have these these swirl forms around it
you can actually see those kind of
striations and living things in a
womb there's a book on that that I can
refer you to if you want this is um I've
have a p i have a icosahedra in the
middle but this is also the 35 knot it's
got five points and three Crossings for
each one
so these are our baskets that we're
weaving these are our reads these are
our again from a Christian perspective
this would be a crown of
thorns um there's other names for these
in in cabalistic literature they
described as baskets where' they get
them
from well let's see I'll show you what
Kito did first because you all know
about Kito these are drawings of the
procession of the
planets these are tourist
knots the one on
top is Mars the one below is mercury
Mars and
Mercury um this one is Venus Mars and
Jupiter
together all Taurus
knots and even
better it's a paper that I was given by
a fellow that I haven't spoken to in a
while and I hope he doesn't mind my
using it but it's a really fine work um
fell lives down in San Jose named Terry
Alden this is copyright Terry Alden 1991
um and this is based on his theory that
the Jupiter Saturn cycle was used as a
verer to set the 25,000 year
processional age and you might get in
touch with him to find out about if
people want know how to contact him I'll
give you what I know of his address
anyhow this is the Jupiter Saturn
cycle it's the 1240 Taurus knot divide
through by four and you get the 310
knot this is the interactive cycle of
Saturn and Jupiter in the heavens in the
cosmos in the Dome of the heavens above
the Flat
Earth above the zodiacal
plane and so all that they needed to
design these models was to know how to
weave baskets and to observe the
heavens they had the
technology imagine a model of the
heavens a model of the hero's journey a
model of the embryonic growth cycle all
of it a meditational path in your mind
talk about identifying with that which
you're
[Music]
studying I know nothing about the Hebrew
alphabet I was wondering if I were to
look in a modern
Hebrew right will I you'll see the
you'll see these you'll see these these
style letters which are the letters I've
used here these have been stylized and
squared off the idea is that in in um
writing a Torah scroll the standard of
whether the scroll is acceptable is
kosher is whether a small child can
unambiguously read the letters letters
here such as the V and the nun are too
close and if they were drawn sloppily
you could confuse them so what the
rabbis did is to stylize the letters so
they could could be unambiguously
written
these are the older forms these are the
forms that are currently
used but if you look in the dead C
Scrolls you're going to find forms that
look more like
these
okay anybody else yeah how certain are
you that the uh those hand forms form
the letters like did you do and how did
you do that did you sort of experimented
a lot experimented a lot took many years
and I was trying at first to use a left
hand you see when I say the morning
prayers every morning I put it pilling
strap on my left arm and I bind the
strap on my hand so I thought it was my
left hand that should make the letters
but you can't do it you just can't I
mean I tell you you could try it you
can't get from one letter to another
without doing these you know it doesn't
work um it only works this way but no
these are this is work in progress I
would say you can trust two-thirds of
these at this point worked on them long
enough but there are some that I am
suspicious of I am not certain of the
final letters and I know the cough
that's on the chart is wrong um but I
haven't worked out exactly why it's the
other one yet and so I have to leave the
temporary one this is definitely work in
progress and um we need to refine it
more before it can be fully used but
there's enough here to play with to work
with if you want to experience some of
this for yourself you don't really need
the models we're going to make them
available um but just lie down in a dark
room sometime maybe you're going to go
to sleep and move your hands
around and notice you'll be able to see
them even if it's completely dark room
or your eyes are closed and if you've
got used to making various gestures put
your hands at your sides and visualize
that you're moving your hands now do it
carefully humility is very important in
doing these things that way you don't
get in trouble um but you can learn
something you can have an experience
from that we are said by people like
costan and I think the talid says it
also if you want to have lucid dreams
look at your hand in your
dream this is the
dream we look at our hand here in order
to wake
up right
okay please has there been in
correlation with yogic positions in uh I
haven't done the work um my answer is
I'm pretty sure when we've got this
refined we're going to find lots of
correlations but I haven't done any of
the work yet and do you have any
suspicions as to what that might lead to
as far as uh physical
um uh ritual or if you look if you um
you look a little younger than I am but
I remember the 1950s they had these Aram
Murray Dance Studios and what they would
do is they teach you to do the Walts or
the chaa if you didn't choke on it by
they literally paint um footprints on
the ballroom floor and you'd step into
the stupid Footprints until you stumbled
but You' learn to do the Walts the
letters are like Footprints in your
mind if you can do the exercise you will
have the experience spiritual experience
is ineffable you can't describe it in
words so a sacred text that's just a
story can only tell you that some
Prophet might have existed and might
have had an experience but what he
experienced who knows but a text that's
a formal language a language that
specifies motion not only motion of your
hands or dance outside but emotion you
can also see
feel that's a
yoga you you follow that path and do
that dance and your Consciousness will
change there is an a quote that I I
typed up I didn't bring the quotation
this is very important this is from a
book on
mathematics um here it is this is from
VI Arnold it's quoted from his book
catastrophe Theory it's a springer verog
page 26 I think you can get it Cody it's
not worth it for this this one line the
he this is a story of catastrophe theory
part of Chaos Theory modern mathematics
and he gets to this point where he says
for instance it has been suggested that
different phones of speech are different
attractors of a sound producing
dynamical system
when you put a smile on your face it's
been demonstrated you produce certain
neurotransmitters that make you feel
better it can't be a snide smile it's
got to be a genuine smile so you can't
Fake It Anyway the point is that when
you do certain
things it feels a certain way and when
you make a sound or move your hand to
relieve attention then you're
dissipating that energy in that motion
you're transforming it from a psychic
state to a physical state or vice versa
makes sense so that if you went through
a sequence of feelings or visualizations
and coordinated with a dance with motion
with breathing with chanting with the
whole gamut then you make yourself part
of what you're discussing what you're
describing you make yourself part of
this process of life this transcendental
process you stretch yourself Between
Heaven and Earth um the rabbis teach
that the only connection between hakma
and Bina hakma being internal wisdom
Bina being external understanding are
the letters of the alphabet that's in
kaplan's one of kaplan's books yeah yeah
please
um then have you played around with the
different sizes of the letters in the
Torah or some of the things like in
numbers you have backwards Nos and stuff
is that a reversal of the meditation is
that lar smaller gestes don't know we
our meu foundation is not very well
funded um it's just basically the people
that are in this room that are doing the
work myself my wife Cynthia Bill Haber
and Hannah araman who was over there I
think um and we don't have the resources
to do everything I have a stack in index
of index cars about 3 feet high at this
point four feet high whatever um of
things that I should be checking out
that you can't do everything so if you
know anybody who wants to do some more
of this work and will volunteer that's
great we there's a lot of things to be
checked out no I don't know I don't know
how far the coding goes the the
statistic test show it goes through all
five books of Moses my indication is
that there is definitely coding as far
as the story of the Garden of Eden in
Genesis and probably into the middle of
Exodus but beyond that I don't know um
it's my guess that Rabbi aka's
meditation this is a guess this is a
speculation I'm labeling that because I
want to distinguish from what I've been
telling you before which is pretty much
stuff I'm I'm confident him I think that
the pares meditation the one that takes
you from here to where Messiah is
this central point where the sun Su n
resides is the sequence of letters from
beginning of Genesis to the story of the
Garden of Eden to Parise Parise Paradise
Garden of Eden same in Hebrew I'm not
sure that's true and I can't do it yet
because I don't know all the letters
well enough but the models suggest
that's the case the most common letter
skip pattern that the statisticians have
found in the texts of the Books of Moses
is a skip of 49 or 50
letters the column is 99 tetrahedral
long 49 49 and one in the
middle each of these hands is 49
tetrahedr long with one at the tip if
you wrote the Torah out on this scroll
toras are written on
Scrolls then the letters that form these
49 letter patterns would line up in
concentric circles like jewels on a
egg now wait a minute that's not so
farfetched oh I didn't bring the little
model I always forget one model you know
in the ancient world in the Roman and
Greek world if you wanted to send a
secret message to your
general you'd take a rod shaft and you'd
wrap it with a leather
strap and you'd write across the
windings your message and you'd pull the
rod out and unfurl the strap and you'd
have garbled letters the only way you
can put it back together again is to
wind it on the similar diameter
shaft so we know that they use this
system of winding winding on a shaft
wait a minute looks like a shaft with
windings on it to me huh um winding on a
shaft was a technology that they used
for coating if we didn't use an ordinary
shaft but used this shaft and wrote the
Torah on it that would encode it and
maybe they started from this pattern of
letters that then got interleaved
interleaved woven embroidered let me
read you that quotation that was the
last
quotation let's put this
away going to find the quotation of
course here it
is this is from AR kaplan's translation
of
Exodus a living Torah it's a perfectly
standard kosher Orthodox Jewish
translation you'll find it in King James
too I'm sure Exodus 3530 to35 Moses said
this is in in Exodus where he's talking
about building the Tabernacle Moses said
to the Israelites God has selected Beto
son of erri son of herur of the tribe of
Judah and has filled him with Divine
Spirit of wisdom understanding and
knowledge hakina
and which is on another level three
levels three
levels uh and a talent for all types of
craftsmanship he will thus be able to
devise
plans makeup plans work in Gold Silver
and copper cut stone stones to be set
and do carp and other skilled work the
words in Hebrew for Gold Silver and
copper the word for silver means the
palm of the hand the word for gold is
the same as this Golden Sun point this
seed in the center golden grain sun is
golden the word for Sil for copper is
the same as the word for snake there's
the snake gold and silver and Brass so
betel is making a tabernacle I showed
you the ark picture out of gold and
silver and Brass out of this projective
principle
and then it says in the next section God
also gave to him in the oh ohol leav son
of akis samak of the tribe of Don the
ability to teach others he has granted
them a natural talent for all
craftsmanship to form materials to
brocade to embroider patterns with sky
blue dark red and Crimson wool and fine
L linen and to weave they will thus be
able to do all the necessary work in
planning that's it those are the skills
required to make the model simple
carpentry weaving
embroidering
okay um next
question uh can't quite see the page
that embeds Arthur Young's Sevenfold in
in the nine and I'm wondering if you're
uh
correlating particular letters of the I
am what I'm doing is saying what Arthur
is shown is that there's a turn that
there's this Progressive sequence where
there's a goal projected and a goal
attained moves by charge uses charge to
move takes on a center throws off
centers there's a symmetry to that I'm
saying the goal projected is this
birthing breaking open the first
distinction the goal attained is head
encompassment closure logically the same
relationship see what I'm saying
Breaking open and encircling are exactly
the same symmetrical relationship as
goal projected and goal attained
likewise after you open in a natural
sequence follows the same logical order
you have relationship the camel the
gimmel the action opposite relationship
action within limits on the other side
we have projection uses charge to move
projection same logical relationship
here takes on its own Center here throws
off centers throws off centers is like
multiplying like a SE shell opening up
layer on layer spiral on
spiral takes on its own Center is just
like the Delta it has the river coming
down the center and it spreads that
around it it makes its own Center
defines its own Center so you can do
this in many different ways and you have
to go through it lots of times to in
order to get it to match up to get the
right sense of it but it's really no
different than what Arthur I I hope I'm
not mistaking it did over here by
putting these these other names on these
functions on the Rosetta Stone I mean um
there's very good reasons for
associating ml^ 2 t^2 with work or fact
associating the um ml^ s over T function
with action or
impulse at first glance you wouldn't
know to do that but if you think it
through this is this is very logical and
it it Maps the same way and you'll have
to trust I did my work if you want more
details you have to come over and we'll
talk
okay what I'm still curious what the
what are the mechanics you go through to
try to uh uh to find to find this match
I mean do you have to put in vowels no I
have paid no attention to the vowels nor
to the word divisions nor to the
cancellation marks because as far as we
know the original text didn't have
vowels didn't have word divisions didn't
have cancellation marks however I'm
certain that when they did add these
extra layers they enhanced the
definition and we'll learn more when we
do examine them I just haven't done it
the sequence as it exists on all you
look at Dead Sea Scrolls it's just all
run together and there's no vowels and
there's there's nothing and you have to
know what you can't tell where words end
unless you introduce the final letters
in Hebrew there's five letters that have
final forms if you see them you know you
have the end of a word but the final
letters are weren't used in the old I
script they were added after the
Babylonian exile or reconstructed from
what was originally there in Moses time
that's an op
debate
so this is a result of a kind of
distillation process over the last J
it's 15 years now almost I mean it's
been since 198 it's 11 years full-time
and I've been doing this since
1968 so it's a distillation process well
have you for instance written written
down the Torah this part that you think
is
um based on this i' I've looked at the
first so to place it uh you know leaving
gaps if you had to uh so to place it
in um you know going every 49th or
whatever no I didn't do that work that
work was done by statisticians at UCLA
and later at Hebrew University um and
that's published work if you want give
me a call during the week and I send you
a copy of some of it you can look at it
um my guess is that these are tenard
statisticians with reputations as good
mathematicians so their math is probably
good their philosophy is thin because
they're jump to conclusions that are
unwarranted but the math is good as far
as I
know I didn't do that I wonder if you
found anything in the current recent
Revelations of Dead Sea Scrolls that fit
into your theories in in a meaningful
way I haven't examined the de C Scrolls
uh in any great detail myself my
understanding of the stories is that
they either presage or Echo the gospel
stories to a large degree and there's a
lot of relig just debates about what
that means and what its significance is
they also seem to say that U Judaism was
much more varied than we think it was um
and which we know is the case there were
all kinds of individual groups that were
doing their own thing at that time my
guess is that we're not going to
understand the meaning of the
allegorical discussions in the Dead Sea
Scrolls any better than we understand
the meaning of the allegorical
discussions in calistic texts until we
apply some of these mathematical models
to those texts but I I haven't done it
it should be done S one particular point
of view let me see if I have it right
what you're suggesting is that if indeed
um what was going on with the formation
of of the language and the way it was
put together and it's taken in in its
original meaning that the reading of it
correctly will induce an ontological
shift yes in terms of Consciousness and
will be tantamount to arriving at a
point of view or a belon Shong a
participatory one in which which would
essentially be that which was meant by
the coming of the Messiah yes if I'm
right Moses comes down from my sin and
writes down his experience in this
formal language he describes step by
step the dance God puts him through and
if we can step into Moses's shoes so to
speak I know he takes his shoes off but
step into his shoes and the artham
Murray Dance sense into the letters he
writes in his Torah then we will be
present back at Mount
which is what Judaism teaches but you
have to go through the level the word
level of the Torah there's four levels
of the Torah and I know you know that
but not everyone knows that um The
Superficial level is the story which is
what the fundamentalists believe um the
next level is the discussion level
so-called um no actually it's it's it's
a hint level called
remes um which is more details then
there's a level called D which is
discussion there is a statement here I
didn't get to where one of the these
commentators is saying the word Druid
comes from the Hebrew word d they were
roving Bic commentators who brought this
Israelite teaching out of the Middle
East and into northern Europe now I
didn't get to that quote U and then the
bottom level is s which means Foundation
we're dealing I hope with the foundation
level shot which is the simple level
remes the hints D the discussion and S
the foundation together spell pares if
you integrate the four levels some could
say the four dimensions of the Torah
then you may have the experience um we
are running out of time I wanted to get
one thing in we're working on a little
book that is going to give you the hand
gestures on a full page each with
descriptions and I'm hoping to make them
available soon so people can practice
with it so I just thought I'd show you
the markup on it
um also I didn't get back to pl's Cave
Revisited which I'd wanted to but I will
summarize the point of it basically he's
saying that the tonic stories of Plato's
Cave is also the story of the use of
sacred geometry to initiate an ego death
experience as the description of an ego
death experience that if one doesn't
have this self-abnegating experience at
a very deep level one is
not righteous enough one doesn't Reach
This level a a a AIC a righteous person
in Judaism is said to sacrifice them
themselves to the great flame in their
meditation every night before they go to
sleep and then of course they're reborn
Every Morning Sounds also familiar
another death and Resurrection story u a
person at the level uh I use the example
because it's not so controversial of
Mother Teresa a saintly person um sort
of does that automatically they're at
that level of humility they just they
let go they just keep letting go all the
time they don't play ego
games so if you could integrate all the
levels of the Torah um as it says at I
um the people heard the
visions and saw the sounds or something
like that it was a case of synesthesia
where the senses were mixed where they
were all together it's at that level of
abstraction that level of
meditation we really are running out of
time do we have time for one more
question do you think one more okay um
anybody all right you get it um you
mentioned earlier about cage and and
opium and I wondered if you speculated
on the possible role of shamanic
psychoactive shamanic medicines in uh
sure the discovery or or experience
visions of this type of
thing I think it looks a little like a
mushroom you take a mushroom into your
mouth and the mushroom form blossoms in
your
mind um the Egyptians we know had or got
them in from RoR got they also we think
practice Suffocation rituals and these
coffers which can induce near-death
experiences um I'm sure that they had
their own version of holotropic
breathing um they definitely knew about
ritual dancing and
chanting um so yeah this is work in
progress um and um there will be more
please stay in touch with us we need all
of your help if you've got questions or
comments uh we want them um I think we
better stop because we're going to run
out of tape so I thank you all for
coming um those of you who celebrate St
Patrick's Day have an especially good
one and um perhaps we'll do this again
next year thank
you well they seem to like it
[Music]
oh